Sound Closet FM is an AI moderated sound system that focuses on music journalism in similar role as for radio broadcasting with a broad spectrum of music in the alternative music genre. The program is hosted around the clock and there are playlists generated by human and AI collaboration.

## Volker Rebell, moderator of general store

Music has always been my thing. Even as a little kid I stood in front of the radio and conducted with my arms waving or blared along. From 1970 onwards I sat in front of the microphone on the radio. Before that in the sixties I was a beat boy and played songs by the Kinks, Who , Beatles , Byrds , Small Faces with a beat band every weekend - sometimes even songs I wrote myself, but they didn't go down well.

Later I tried it as a soloist with my own songs - almost everything withered. Things went better on the radio with my own personality show: "Volkers Kramladen" from 1977 to 2004 on hr3 and "hr3-Rebell" until the end of 2008. Since January 2009 the "Kramladen" has been revived - on ByteFM.

## Vanessa Wohlrath, moderator of ByteFM Mixtape, hertzfibrillation, new territory

Vanessa Wohlrath lives and works in Hamburg. After a stopover in Stockholm and Berlin, she has a lasting connection to the different cities. Her interest in the Scandinavian music scene is particularly evident in her own show, Hertzflimmern.

Vanessa has been working at ByteFM since the end of 2010. She is also a member of the culture editorial team at NDR Info and NDR Kultur, is a host at SWR2 Tandem Musik and a contributor at Deutschlandradio.

You can read more about Vanessa Wohlrath in following interview:

Vanessa Wohlrath lives and works in Hamburg. After a stopover in Stockholm and Berlin, she has a lasting connection to the different cities. Her interest in the Scandinavian music scene is particularly evident in her own show, Hertzflimmern.

Vanessa has been working at ByteFM since the end of 2010. She is also a member of the culture editorial team at NDR Info and NDR Kultur, is a host at SWR2 Tandem Musik and a contributor at Deutschlandradio.

"Keepin' it surreal, not sugar-free" - this quote from US musician Frank Ocean is the inspiration for Hertzflimmern. The show in which Vanessa Wohlrath has been serving up smooth, electronic and delicate music every two weeks since July 2011 and always has room for a Robyn song in the playlist. We spoke to the long-time ByteFM presenter about her favorite guests, the Scandinavian music scene and the joy of making radio.

There are many things that come into play. From the outside, the current Scandinavian music scene (if you can sum it up that way) seems relatively homogeneous at first glance. At the moment, a lot of smooth R&B sounds are gaining ground, but also a lot of electronic music. The creative scene and the cultural sector in Scandinavia are supported by the state, which makes it easier for many newcomers to break into the business. This means that we have a huge pool of musicians and bands, but they often sound quite similar.
At second glance, however, there is also a lot of experimentation and daring. Let's look at The Knife or Robyn , for example. These are bands and artists who took advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution around 2000 and produced their own music in their bedrooms. Then they went straight out onto the internet, where everyone had access to it. And so tracks ended up making it onto our playlists that perhaps would hardly have made it without this change, because they would probably have been brushed clean or rejected by some intermediary. Many acts from Scandinavia still bring this do-it-yourself spirit with them, which is why I think they are so well received internationally.

You regularly interview artists from all over the world. What was your most beautiful or memorable encounter?

That's not so easy. I was of course very happy about the visit from Little Dragon two years ago, and I also interviewed St. Vincent once. That was right at the beginning of my time at ByteFM, when I wasn't even presenting ByteFM magazine yet, and it was pretty impressive! But I was particularly touched by the visit from Robert Forster (formerly of The Go-Betweens ). He had just published his book "Grant & I" and was on a reading tour with it. At the time of the interview I had no idea that he spoke German so well, and had prepared everything in English. In the end we only spoke in German and he played a song live. That's really special: To sit alone in a room with someone like Robert Forster , who has already been on stage with Nick Cave and hung out with Orange Juice in Scotland, and to hear a live piece played to you!


In addition to your work on the radio, you are also active as an author. What do you prefer: the spoken or the written word?

Both have their appeal. But now I would say the spoken word. Because so many emotions can be conveyed through the voice - from lively to deeply relaxed, serious to cheerful. In the best case, it can be touching, in the worst case, you switch off immediately. The right pitch and tone of voice are extremely important on the radio. This allows content to be conveyed even better. Personally, I like listening and having something told to me. As a recipient, I often find that more appealing than if I were reading it myself.

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

Streaming music and generating playlists is one thing. It can be fun and I use it quite often. But what I find even more exciting is understanding who or what is behind these music projects, behind these songs and albums. What tricks did Phil Spector use to give the Righteous Brothers a hit? Will Smith sampled The Whisperers for "Miami"? And Neneh Cherry moved from Stockholm to London to do punk on stage with The Slits ? All of this is information that streaming services don't provide us with - but the radio does. As the presenter of a music radio station, it is important to me to pass on this kind of information, to promote lesser-known music acts - and, last but not least, to entertain.

Do you have a favorite episode of Hertzflimmern or a program that particularly sticks in your memory?

Monothematic broadcasts like the one about Karen Dalton or those in which I talked to artists like Jenny Hval , Angel Olsen or Let's Eat Grandma.

What was the nicest compliment you received from a listener?

“Your voice sounds so pleasantly calm.”

## Uli Patzwahl, moderator of La France, en confidence

Uli Patzwahl introduced French hard rock at school, in French class, to his French teacher - a straight 4, and the music was "half-baked".

Since then, Uli has been searching for the music, lived in France for a long time, made many reports for German and French TV and radio stations, and now knows that "half-baked" can be a compliment, a wonderful one, just like the 4. It just can't be smooth.

# Torsten Fiebig, moderator of 80 percent

Torsten Fiebig, born in 1977 (!), a trained linguist and semi-trained guitarist with Der Raketenhund , stumbled into the doors of the Braunschweig regional station Radio Okerwelle in 1996, together with Dennis and Heine and the bold enthusiasm of three young punks , and asked: "What do we have to press so that something good comes out of the radio?!" Under the motto "Punk, Ska and Bonus Noise", the weekly broadcasting of 80 percent began a year later .
Over the years, however, the offbeat started to hiccup and the corresponding style of music was largely banned. Instead, a quieter songwriter piece now sneaks into the playlist every now and then. As you get older, you really start to be interested in country music...

# Timo Weiner

Timo lives in Hamburg and earns his money as a graphic designer.
He is particularly interested in classical music and jazz.
He mostly plays other things on his show.

# Timo Grimm, moderator of 10 to 12

Timo has been fascinated by radio since he was a child. At the age of eight he was already putting together mixtapes from the radio. Always with his finger on the record button on the cassette recorder. Always hoping that the new song by his favourite band wouldn't be cut off by the traffic reports again.

Less inspired by chart radio, more influenced by shows like NDR Nachtclub, after school he went to the Offener Kanal in Lübeck for a voluntary cultural year and learned the basics of everyday radio life (scheduling, broadcasting schedule, news, interviews, presenting, technical support - and a lot of DIY).

This was followed by studies in Hamburg (musicology and currently Romance languages), accompanied by
a fascination for the very lively Hamburg band scene - and for ByteFM.

When Timo is not at the microphone, you can find him in the rehearsal room with his band Blackbird Mantra (vocals and guitar), on the Elbe island, at home, at university or in a nice bar like the Kometen.

# Timo Drechsler, moderator of 80 percent

Timo Drechsler, youngster and geriatric nurse, knows at least every punk band that ever existed, existed or will exist in the USA, including cross-connections and family relationships.

He likes vinyl "lo-fi vacuum cleaner sound" and came to the radio as a willing intern after Dennis and Heine left, but quickly mutated into the secret string puller in the studio due to his pronounced punk rock key skills ("I don't care who presses the buttons below me!").

Active as a drummer with Kippen and Les Aspirateurs and pretty lazy with The Sickteens .

# Till Lorenzen, moderator of Kalamaluh

It all started with a mixtape by his big brother: "Keyboards." Deep Purple , The Doors, Baby Face Willette, Ray Charles - his ears were opened up to music, and the keys from organ to piano and Fender Rhodes became Till Lorenzen's favorite instrument. The logical consequence was to study jazz piano, combined with a master's degree in "Cultural Poetics of Literature and Media," because he is also interested in discourses and paradigms.

Musically, there are a variety of things on the menu, but it is mostly progressive, psychedelic, jazzy, spherical or droning. Once described as a hippie in a hooded sweater, he is more of a long-haired free spirit with a penchant for serious conversations. Although the irony is always lurking.

Till Lorenzen works as a freelance author for Deutschlandfunk Kultur and is working on completing his studies with a thesis on the poetics of Helge Schneider.

# Tanju Boerue, moderator of Elevator Music

Tan LeRacoon is a musician, manager, producer.
Tan .U Sound and anarchist folk rocker.
Lives with his family in Hamburg.

Together with Anja Lupoupou he ran the Hasenschaukel in Hamburg.

# Susan Kubny, moderator of 10 to 12

Growing up in a small town near Bonn, Susan moved to the Nordic city of Hamburg for an apprenticeship. After a foray into agency life, she tried out design studies and spent the pandemic period in picturesque Heidelberg. Back in the Hanseatic city, Susan pursued various jobs in the media world - most recently as an assistant at NDR for the Arte magazine Twist and in the Tagesschau editorial team at ARD aktuell.

Susan loves nature, books and animals, enjoys going to concerts and is enthusiastic about all beautiful things that have to do with science and art. Now she has landed a job at the best German radio station and can (finally) work on the most wonderful thing in the world: music!

# Sebastian Reier, moderator of Groovie Shizzl

The spinelessness of public broadcasting often leaves me speechless. I think there are more than enough listeners who associate the medium of radio with the characters who bring it into their rooms. For these people, music is something personal and personality develops further in connection with new and - in our case - unheard things. People who care about music die when the same thing is repeated over and over again. In the form of a sound wallpaper, spiced up with empty phrases about "best" and "master" music bought by radio consultants. I don't expect music to play a central role in everyone's life and as far as I'm concerned, it should and must exist. But please not exclusively! Opinionated presentations and stimulating music selection are more in demand than ever in times of NoBillag initiatives. And so are stations that don't sedate the mainstream.

Without knowledge, nothing works on music radio. Nevertheless, knowledge is fleeting. Because on the radio, you rarely have the listeners' full attention. In the end, what counts is the enthusiasm you convey. It is the essence that listeners remember. And of course, the music does the rest. Everyone here knows that, but no one better than Norman Müller , whose collected works I unconditionally recommend at this point.

DJing

I started DJing under the name of Booty Carrell around 2002, probably at Club2 in Munich. The name comes from a semi-lucid dream I had around eight in the morning between sleep and waking up. It stuck to me and a lot of people on the street call me by that name. It’s less common than Sebastian and who knows – maybe fits?

Anyhow: Playing records, presenting music to people is certainly what took me to most places. In 2010 I found my love for what I call “music from the second wave of musical globalization” – means I started playing and hoarding vinyl records from Turkey, Iran, Pakistan and all over the world but with strong focus on Asian music from the fading vinyl era (mostly 1970s). I put mixes on the web, some of them were well received globally and while this never made me a top paid DJ from the jet set of global club culture (too much to ask for with this kind of music) — I am very thankful I got to play in so many places all over the world. I am thankful for the warm reception, the information, the friendships this has caused. Up to now there have been tours and gigs in Turkey, Pakistan, Spain, Romania, all over Germany, France, Belgium, Holland, Switzerland, Roskilde Festival Denmark, Austria, Thailand, England, Croatia and more sharing the decks with Doug Shipton, Andy Votel, Habibi Funk, Anika, Daniel Miller, Maft Sai, Chris Menist, Ladies on Records, Ernesto Chahoud, JJ Whitefield, Zozo, The Dude Of Stratosphear, Benjamin Fröhlich, Dompteur Mooner, Mahssa, DJ Fatou, Afrodermitis, Ion din Dorobanti, Khidja and many more.

I joined the B-Music crew around my favorite record label ever Finders Keepers in 2011. B-Music is also the name of my current series which brings global crate diggers to play at the Golden Pudel Club in Hamburg.

In general the music I play is based on research in specific topics and obsessions. That’s why DJing always opened gates into other territories of music intermediation.

Journalism

In 2005 I co-founded the Grimme Online Award nominated music editorial for ZEITonline, the online branch of German weekly Die Zeit. Until 2009 I wrote as a regular freelancer for them and later moved on to being a sporadic contributor of the paper issue. Most of the texts disappeared but here’s an index on some of these works.

I also contributed to Austrian subculture magazine SKUG and some bits to taz – Die Tageszeitung

From 2011 through 2016 I recorded several special interest feature shows to WDR3open: Freiraum (Studio für Akustische Kunst, Westdeutscher Rundfunk / Editor: Markus Heuger)

Since September 2010 and to this day I am happy to present my own bi-weekly radio show Groovie Shizzl for ByteFM Webradio.

Music and Vinyl Talks

One thing I always really enjoyed obviously is talking about music. Even in public. But I had no idea you could turn this into a format until Danish production crew and crate diggers extraordinaire Den Sorte Skole invited Doug Shipton and me to Copenhagen to do what they called a “vinyl talk” with the legendary record dealer Martin Pac. Due to Den Sorte Skole’s massive popularity in Denmark there was a huge crowd waiting for us to play obscure records and talk about them in a living room situation on a stage. Cheering after every snippet! We were blown away by this reception and the fun of it. So of course ever since I try to make hold of every opportunity to do a “vinyl talk”. At Groove City Recordstore in Hamburg we established a series called “Eine Kiste Platten und eine Kiste Bier mit Dir” co-hosted by DJ Mad, Mitra Kassai and me. I did some on specific topics like “Prerevolutionary Iranian Pop“, “Turkish Immigrant Music Production in Germany” at places like Les Disques Bongo Joe in Geneva, Resonanzraum Hamburg and Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe Hamburg. Or sometimes artist interviews on stage for Operation Ton in Hamburg — it’s a good thing – let’s talk!

By far the most well received adventure in this field as been the series “Ich markk Vinyl” at the Markk museum in Hamburg. We arranged music talks around the vast vinyl archive of the museum and hundreds of people came. There’s also been an unexpected amount of media coverage ranging from NDR Fernsehen, Hamburger Abendblatt, Hamburg Guide to interviews with Deutschlandfunk Kultur. Props to my wonderful guests DJ Fatou, Coco Maria, Guy Dermosessian, Bogdan Orbita – each session has been precious and unforgettable!!

Works for Theatre and Film, Performance and Music Programmation

My first band Stockheinz Karlhausen we composed theatre music for an aspiring theatre director called Esther Hattenbach. That must’ve been in 1999 but I’m not sure. She was absolutely brilliant — thank’s for giving us a shot!

In 2002 for and with Felix Kubin I coproduced a 13 hour live music program called “Lucid Dreams – Sleepwalking The 21st Century” at a rather disatrous edition of the Festival Nuit Blanche in Paris. That night the mayor got stabbbed (and survived), we had a proper riot in the building and the backstage got raided, the sound engineer canceled his appearance and had to be replaced by Felix himself but however: Matt Wand, Alejandra & Aeron, Mariola Brillowska, John Hegre and Felix managed to play fantastic shows.

In 2003 or 2004 my friend Meeuw and I curated a room for the Festival I.D.E.A.L. in Nantes, France. We had Brezel Göring, A*Class, Dennis Tyfus, Finnish Spoken Punk artist Paska and ATC on the bill. What feels unreal about it is that (nowadays) super well established sound artist and music mastering luminary Rashad Becker was driving the van with grace. We ran out of gas near Oberhausen on the way back.

Starting in 2006 I programmed a monthly concert series at the Golden Pudel Club, Hamburg. The series was called “Salzburg Touchscreen” and it saw a great great variety of performers in a range from harsh Noise to Psychedelic Pop, Jazz, Outernational, Electronica, Steampunk and even an 18 piece brass band from Providence. Concerts included Blevin Blectum, Kevin Blechdom, Graham Mushnik, The What Cheer Brigade, Ariel Pink, Tex & Erobique, L’Orchestre du Montplaisant, The Levenshulme Bicycle Orchestra, Kunt, The Woima Collective, Thomas Truax, Miss Hawaii and many more.

In 2008 we venturesomely wrote, directed and performed a piece called Amanda Amende und Pia No at Muenchner Kammerspiele. With “We” I mean our friends Pollyester, Dompteur Mooner and our band Augsburger Tafelconfect. The excellent Oliver Mallison was the only actor/professional theatre performer in the crew. To this day I don’t know how he handled four musicians trying to set up a professional theatre production. It was Dada heaven for us.

At the same time in 2008 I “wrote” and performed a live score for a theatre piece for director Nina Mattenklotz (Woyzeck I think). The performance took place at Kampnagel, Hamburg.

On top of that at the same time in 2008 I participated in the program “Toi-Même” for the Festival Banlieues Bleues in Pantin, Paris directed by Noël Akchoté and produced by Stefan Winter and Mariko Takahashi. It was about eating, drinking and collaborating and featured such a range of artists: Brad Jones, Han Bennink, Red, Andrew Sharpley, Jean-Louis Costes, Kevin Blechdom, Fritz Ostermayer, Laetitia Shériff, Otto Lechner, John Giorno,

In 2011 social choreographer/human puppet master Claudia Plöchinger commissioned Viktor Marek and me to “write” and perform the score for her piece „Verkehr – ein choreografisches Planspiel“ that took place in Kampnagel Hamburg. One of the musical pieces made it onto the B-side of our “legendary” single Check The Horse!

In 2012 I performed and chose the music for Heute Volkstanzen – a dance piece that was performed in Hamburg and Leipzig.

From 2013-2016 I was responsible for the music and performed as sidekick to Manuel Muerte in his “Der Schwebende Diwan” talk shows (Kampnagel, Hamburg).

For the 2013 edition of the Überjazz Festival in Hamburg I curated the “B-Music” program. It included the first concerts on german soil of Jean-Claude Vannier (with Band and Ensemble Resonanz String Quartet) and Bruno Spoerri (with Andy Votel). Also on the bill: The Woima Collective, Chris Menist and Anthony Joseph. The Vannier concert was a proper festival production, it hadn’t happened before and had to put the musicians together which meant lots of rehearsals, get togethers and even more new ideas. Very exciting. Thank you, Heiko Jahnke, for having our backs on this.

By far the most crucial moment though was programming the music for the New Hamburg Festival directed by Björn Bicker, Malte Jelden and Michael Graessner commissioned by Deutsches Schauspielhaus in 2014. It took place in a predomintaly immigrant district of Hamburg, the Veddel and we wanted to work as much as we could with local people rather than just importing our cultural offerings. For the music we hired the core of the band L’Orchestre du Mont Plaisant (whom I knew well from the Pudel) to come to Hamburg for seven weeks and work in the tightest rehearsal schedule known to man to present local talent in a range from Turkish to West African Music via Romani styles and Sinti Jazz to Japanese Post Punk. We produced about eight concert premieres and two theatrical scores and it all worked out so well. The most beautiful aspect though is that a lot the projects took off into the future: Derya Yıldırım and Grup Şimşek are touring the world and are about to drop their debut album in 2019. Furthermore Derya is regularely playing with the Ensemble Resonanz (Elbphilharmonie 2019), Albanian lute player Hava Bekteshi founded an amazing band with Love Songs. Bulgarian violin genius youngster Alex Xtra-Ta has ever since played countless combinations with Marino Formenti, Ensemble Resonanz, Jacques Palminger, Benjamin Brunn .. and lava is still afloat out of this creative volcano that erupted in October 2014

With the core of New Hamburg in 2016 we represented Germany for the Biennale Architettura in Venice. We set up “The Veddel Embassy” in the Chiesa della Misericordia for one week. 80 people from the Veddel including the kids football club, members of the Islamic community and inimitable characters traveled to Venice for this and we presented concerts every night. This was again directed by Björn Bicker, Malte Jelden and Michael Graessner and funded by the Goethe Institute. Here’s a film on this massive operation.

In 2017 Goethe Institue Thailand invited me to host a South East Asian DJ Conference in the wake of the Urban String East Asia Tour of Ensemble Resonanz. Reports are available in English and German

In 2018 with Mohammad Poori I curated the music lead of the second New Hamburg Festival: Soli Polis.

Also in 2018 with Derya Yıldırım and Grup Şimşek we returned to Biennale Architettura in Venice for another Goethe Institute project with author Björn Bicker and director Malte Jelden: “Truth And Reconciliation Concert Hearing One: Islamophobia” is the name of the result. A film about it is in the making and I will post that.

From September 2020 I’ll be taking care of music at Münchner Kammerspiele joining the artistic direction team of its new director Barbara Mundel on a five year term as Music Director and Dramaturg.

Music Education

since 2009 I am part of Klangradar 3000 in my hometown Hamburg. Klangradar is an organization that sends composers to school classes. Within three months time those composers advise school kids with alternative playing and composition techniques and helps them set up their own contemporary experimental composition that will be played on stage linked to a regular concert. I am very proud I helped realize about eight of those concerts to this day and I can’t wait for the next.

Between 2010-2015 I was commissioned by the Körber-Stiftung to explore the possibilities of a concert foyer in a course program spanning five years. Courses were held at the HAW Hamburg with Prof. Almut Schneider and her students. The results were shown as part of ePhil, a contemporary electronics series set up by Hamburg’s Elbphilharmonie. For the first five years of the series the Elbphilharmonie was not yet set up. Those concerts were held at the Körberforum Hamburg.

From 2010 until 2020 I’ve been working as buyer/music counselor at Groove City Recordstore in Hamburg.

another educational project I am involved in is Karolonia — Stadtlabor für temporäre Weltverbesserung – a project of Hamburg’s Kulturagenten. For the initial edition 2018 we produced a radio show with school kids recorded live in the Groove City Recordstore.

Bands/Music Projects

Between 1999 and 2001 I was part of the short lived Improv-Quintet Stockheinz Karlhausen. That was fun and I hope everybody’s doing well!

In 2003 Jürgen Hall and I founded Augsburger Tafelconfect – an electronics/table top guitar Improvisation unit that happened to play lots of shows around Europe (sometimes visually accompanied by the immensely talented BaronesseA). We released an EP and a 7inch and failed to release our actually finished album. With Burkhard Friedrich and Sascha Demand we ran our own Improv concert series Gegen den Strom at the Golden Pudel Salon Hamburg and played with Johannes Bauer, John Russell, Eddie Prévost, Lol Coxhill and many others. By 2009 we felt the story of Augsburger Tafelconfect had been explored to the fullest and we quit the band.

In July 2020 Derya Yıldırım, Tobias Levin and myself composed and recorded the music for “Gülden’s Schwester”, a radio play by Björn Bicker and produced for Bayern 2 Hörspiel. It was awarded Hörspiel Of The Month by the Deutsche Akademie für darstellende Künste the same month.

Music Business

A short stint on the business side of things should not be completely ignored. From about 2001 until mid 2002 probably I worked as assistant of the management of the record company Winter&Winter in Munich, Germany.

In 2002 I joined music publishers edition Stora and fueled by friendship and ambition we tried to surf the biz in between being a publisher, label, artist association, mail order and countryside commune. We haven’t been successful at everything (during my time especially not the publishing which was supposed to be the main income) but we have tried everything and I’m so thankful to the crew.

# Sebastian Hampf, moderator of The Good Nightz

Sebastian Hampf is one of the good souls at ByteFM. At night you can occasionally listen to his great mix sets, because he's also a DJ. Look out for mixes from 'Skar'.

Sound? Different, there's a lot of good stuff. Loud music, quiet music, analogue, digital. He really likes his Kessel Buntes!

Do you remember the band or record that made you a music fan?

Difficult question, but Depeche Mode's "Violator" was definitely important, as a cassette from the Polish market. And " Paul's Boutique " by Beastie Boys was at least as important , although I only discovered that later.

Your show The Good Nightz is basically the continuation of a tape series in which you provided friends with your personal favorite songs. What makes a good mixtape for you?

It has to have a suspenseful arc and ideally be a mixture of well-known and unknown songs. This makes it easier to access new music and it will then be remembered positively. Hopefully. And of course an individual cover!

Do you have a favorite show on radio or a recommendation?

Electro Royale (love to Martin Böttcher ), BTTB – Back To The Basics (with bass head Marcus Maack), Karamba (Klaus Fiehe, best guy in the radio biz) and Hello Mellow Fellow (with the master of deceleration , Matthias Westerweller).

## Sandra Zettpunkt, moderator of Golden Glades

Sandra Zettpunkt has been working as a radio producer for a quarter of a century. Despite her weakness for Scotland and the US West Coast, the Hamburg native lives with her family in Bern, Switzerland. There, every two weeks, she disappears into a junk room to broadcast whatever she can find on her wanderings - in constant search of the offbeat and the timeless on the left bank of the pop cosmos.

On January 16, 2008, five days after ByteFM went on air, the Golden Glades show premiered on our program. Since then, 289 shows have been broadcast, in which Sandra Zettpunkt has always put together golden, shiny singer-songwriter and indie pop gems for adventurous themed shows. What you don't hear in front of the receiver: These have always been created in a small 1.5 square meter junk room that our presenter has to clear out before each production - and this is guaranteed to be the case for the show's anniversary in January 2018.

Do you remember the moment in your life that made you a music fan or a radio fan?

Even as a five-year-old, I preferred playing the radio to being a mother and child: Together with the boy next door, I would make up funny news stories and record the silly announcements on cassette. And of course, I spent many hours recording mixtapes from the radio. My first recording was Nena's debut album, but I only bought it because I found ten marks in the bushes. As a teenager, I discovered British guitar bands and often sneaked out of the house to watch live concerts. When I was 16, I played drums in a Schrammelpop band, and when John Peel featured our first single on his program, it was like a knighthood.

Describe the essence of your show Golden Glades in five words. - Open your ears for the unheard!

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? How important is moderated radio for you?

First and foremost, I am a music fan and one of the classic hunter and collector types. But instead of roaming through catalogs or record shelves like I used to, it is now the digital platforms and archives that offer a seemingly endless range of sounds. I keep finding exciting and great acts.
Of course, the conditions for making music have also changed a lot in recent years: great music can now be produced with a small budget and many interesting artists operate independently, no longer needing a label, let alone a publisher or a promotional agency. Today, everyone has their own "cottage industry" and can send their artistic products out into the wide world. My mission is to find these little highlights and put them into an entertaining and insightful context in my show - as far as possible beyond the consensus that always quickly emerges, even in the indie sector. In general, radio is still a brilliant journalistic music medium because listeners can form their own opinion about whether a song is any good or not.

## Ruben Jonas Schnell, moderator of free play, Teenage Kicks, Ukraine Calling, What You Want, Room 4 36

Ruben Jonas Schnell, born in Hanover in 1968, has lived in Hamburg since 1994. He is the initiator, managing director and editorial director of the web radio station ByteFM. The music journalist with a master's degree in musicology and American studies has been working as a freelance editor and presenter for radio since the early 1990s.

## Paula Steinbauer, moderator of New School

It was in an Italian restaurant just outside the city limits of Berlin that Paula Steinbauer was asked what she would most like to do with her life.

"Radio," she replied.
"Then why don't you just do that?" came the reply.
And since then she's just been doing it. First with Alex Berlin, now with ByteFM, where she presents the hip hop show New School.

Hip hop is a music genre that has its direct origins in the Bronx in New York in the early 1970s, where DJs mixed breaks from funk records at block parties. MCs ("masters of ceremonies") expanded rhythmic title announcements into spoken word (rap). DJs like DJ Kool Herc developed new techniques on the turntables, such as scratching. This first phase of hip hop was replaced by the "New School" of hip hop from around 1984. This turning point is marked by the use of samples, in addition to a shift towards harder everyday topics.

The New School transitioned seamlessly into the "golden age" of hip hop, which lasted from the mid-1980s to the early 1990s. Musically, it was characterized by an innovative use of samples from various genres and references to African-American musical traditions such as jazz and funk. In terms of content, the themes became increasingly diversified. Two traditions in particular shaped the era: the "gangsta" rap associated with the West Coast and the less aggressive "East Coast" rap.

The 90s were characterized by the mainstream success of the genre and an increasing rivalry between artists from the east and west coast scenes. From the second half of the 1990s, hip hop increasingly divided into various subtrends. The focus shifted to the US southern states (Southern Rap), especially to Atlanta, where the trends that still dominate today, such as crunk, snap, glitch and wonky hip hop, emerged. Internationally, hip hop became one of the most influential youth cultures, especially from the 90s onwards.

# Paula Bühler, moderator of new territory, Reeperbahn Festival Container, Ukraine Calling

Paula Bühler, born in 1999, grew up in beautiful Cologne, now lives in even more beautiful Hamburg.
Passionate about music from an early age with a love of 80s new wave records and the Beatles that continues to this day , her first career choice was to be a radio presenter.
After her first attempts on the cassette recorder in her child's room, she was initially drawn to the events industry after graduating from high school. Concerts and festivals are among her great passions, which is why she can often be found in various Hamburg concert venues, sometimes in front of the stage, sometimes behind the stage.
She has been part of the Mojo Club team since 2021.
When she is not putting her energy into work or curating shared apartment party playlists, she is also studying sociology and political science at the University of Hamburg.

At ByteFM, Paula alternates with various colleagues to host the ByteFM Magazine, the StadtMagazin, Neuland and the Reeperbahn Festival Container.

## Paul Haeberlin, moderator of ByteFM Klassik

Paul sang at various state funerals during his childhood and listened only to classical music until his first CD ( Michael Jackson “Dangerous”).

He has remained true to his favorite composers, but when he is not busy indulging in bourgeois music, he now also likes Anatolian synth pop, “Hannes Wader sings workers’ songs,” Algerian raï or class-conscious German rap.

With this variety of tastes and a lot of fun, Paul takes over as presenter-en-intérim of the program ByteFM Klassik.

# Patrick Ziegelmüller, moderator of new territory, Sunday Service, Sunday Service Rewind

Since the early 1990s, Patrick Ziegelmüller has been a resident DJ at various Hamburg clubs (Kir, Astra Stube, Golden Pudel Club, Grüner Jäger). In 1996 he discovered his passion for radio and has been presenting the music magazine Sunday Service at the Freies Sender Kombinat in Hamburg ever since.

"The presentation by siblings Sandra and Patrick Ziegelmüller is legendary. They present the latest records in the style of a dignified version of the Muppet grandpas," wrote INTRO recently.

Regular top placements in the reader polls of SPEX magazines (1st place in 2003 and 2005) and INTRO are the fuel for the voluntary radio work.

The Sunday Service is also broadcast on the free radio stations bermuda.funk (Heidelberg and Mannheim), Radio Corax (Halle/Saale) and Radio T (Chemnitz).
Nothing really stands in the way of world sound anymore.

# Oliver Korthals, moderator of Out Of Spectrum

Co-founder and DJ of the Hamburg Mojo Club - as a DJ you can find more than just behind the Hamburg DJ booth.

In addition to his regular appearances in Cologne's Stadtgarten, he is on the road wherever dancefloor jazz is in demand. His musical spectrum ranges from 60s jazz to deep funk and soul, Latin and Brazil to the latest productions from house, electro and hip hop - the common thread is jazz, both as a stylistic element and as a basic mental attitude.

He has also put together the series "Mojo Club presents Dancefloor Jazz", which already includes 13 episodes.

“Daring” has a lot to do with “being able to do”. One such moment was in early 2008, when ByteFM was launched. The first “jump” into radio, however, was a long time ago. In the early 90s, there was Jazzwelle Plus in Hamburg, where I was able to produce the show The Chase for two years with my then DJ colleague Heiko Jahnke. There we enjoyed every musical freedom and, thanks to the late broadcast time of 10 p.m. and the neighboring gas station, other freedoms too. A fun time… When I finally had the opportunity to do radio again via ByteFM in early 2008, I jumped at the chance! Much of what we did in the Mojo Club over the years was shaped by possibilities that had arisen and chances that we were able to seize.

You don't come to jazz, it comes to you. That was a gradual development with what I heard and also an influence from those whose radio programs I listened to. John Peel, for example, was someone who, even without explicitly playing jazz, always had an open ear for different and new things. At the beginning of the eighties I discovered ska, two-tone and hip hop , funk and soul as original samples were added and then jazz quickly followed.

You once said that jazz is not just a stylistic device, but also a mental attitude. What do you mean by that?

For me, jazz has always been and still is a music that is open to other influences - and that influences! In my entire musical socialization, I have always been open to new things and have discovered a lot over the years. And I think that has driven many, if not all, jazz musicians to try out new things. Perhaps more politicians should listen to jazz music...

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

Moderated or curated radio is more important than ever! Like a well-stocked record store, a radio presenter is also a filter, allowing personal taste to speak for itself. I select from the multitude of publications that are available, combine them and, in the best case, create new connections. "Supervised listening" when done well, "subjective" in the
best sense.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

Groovie Shizzl with Sebastian Reier is fun: likeable nerdiness. Karamba with Klaus Fiehe is a must: a "titan" on German radio and a walking music encyclopedia to boot! But there are certainly a number of other shows that I haven't discovered yet.


## Nourdin Ghanem, technologist and moderator

Nourdin Ghanem is a Composer, Sound Engineer and Production Manager for Music, Theatre and Film. Nourdin Ghanem is a helper to technical director Danny "Gyro Gearloose" Steinmeyer. Musically socialized not least through John Peel and other good music radio in the 80s (does anyone remember Christian Günther?). Grateful that ByteFM is finally back. Even under extreme room conditions, he still finds a corner to solder. Filled to the brim with dangerous half-knowledge.

Outside of ByteFM, he works as a sound engineer, composer/arranger and production manager for live events. 

## Norman Müller, moderator for Sounds Outta Range

Norman Müller - born in 1980 - comes from Geest in Lower Saxony.

Even as a child, away from the media hype, he hosted mix cassettes that he put together from his father's record collection and radio recordings. In addition to this advanced nerdiness, he was also overcome by a Prince fetish in his early years. Right down to the tips of his long hair. After visiting a dinosaur exhibition, he got his first album in 1992 and spent the following years exclusively working through Prince's discography. But Norman Müller is not just a nerd and a Prince fetishist - his openness and curiosity make him a balanced personality. He once said in an interview with a local club newspaper that he had always hung out "with metalheads, Gabba fans and hip-hoppers".

Since he came of age, he has worked as a music journalist, first in the local print sector, then he rediscovered his love for radio. He has always avoided the radio, but he has been heard on Deutschlandradio, Offener Kanal HH and FSK HH. Maybe this is irrelevant at this point, but to lighten the mood, it should be mentioned: Norman Müller is a big fan of Balisto and Mango Lassi.

If you want to see him in real life, you can bring him stuff like that to one of his DJ gigs. Under the name Digital Norman, he regularly fills clubs and bars with funk, kraut disco, dubstep, hip hop , AfroPsych and - ahem - Prince.

Sounds Outta Range and you have been “searching for funk” for ten years now. A lifelong search?

Yes. Even as a child, I was fascinated by syncopated rhythms. My father's record collection was more Americana rock-heavy, though. So I had to make funky beats myself: My father built a small studio in my parents' house, which also had a drum kit, which I abused extensively. Then I started recording the songs I liked on the radio. I still do something similar today, only I record the songs on the Internet - and play them on the radio. I still make beats in my own room, but on the computer, because of the neighbors.

Anyone who talks about you inevitably has to talk about Prince. What was your moment of revelation?

In 1992, I was twelve and my class and I visited a dinosaur exhibition in the Bremen Overseas Museum. Before the journey home, we were allowed to walk around the city center for an hour and that's where I bought my first Prince album. Up until then, I already knew a few singles and videos, but the bus ride home with the "Love Symbol" record in the Discman was the life-changing event, I think. The highlights of my fan career were definitely the official German premieres of Prince songs at Sounds Outta Range and being invited to the last two German Prince concerts in Berlin and Cologne , together with a handful of listeners .

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a moderator?

I've probably always had a certain missionary zeal in me when it comes to music. The radio show helps me to channel that. That way I don't have to constantly annoy those around me with my strange taste in music. I also like listening to other people missionizing and criticizing. But I'm worried that a whole generation is growing up for whom music radio is hardly relevant anymore because their music isn't played there - partly for understandable reasons: German rap. They use Spotify and YouTube.

When you're not presenting on ByteFM or other radio stations, you work as a DJ under the pseudonym Digital Norman. What do you enjoy more: the radio show with silent listeners or DJ sets with an ecstatic audience?

There are also silent listeners at the DJ sets, and it is unclear whether someone gets into ecstasy at Sounds Outta Range. When you're DJing, there's usually a higher party factor.

Do you have a favorite episode of Sounds Outta Range or a show that particularly sticks in your mind?

I have a sneaking suspicion that the playlist from the show featuring Prince 's first radio premiere influenced a Prince concert setlist . But I didn't want to start with Prince again , so I'll mention the monothematic special editions of Sounds Outta Range on topics such as 70s Tropicália Funk, Funky Prog Rock , G-Funk, 80s Boogiefunk from Japan - they're always a lot of fun.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

I'm a Groovie-Shizzle-Ultra, Sebastian Reier is an incredibly clever vinyl archaeologist and also a thoroughly pleasant guy. Also BTTB - Back To The Basics with Marcus Maack , a show that influenced me long before the ByteFM era began.

## Nils Lagoda, moderator of Best regards

Nils is not many things and is a little of some things. For example, he is not a craftsman. But he is many things that have to do with music. He makes music alone and in various formations, he writes about music, sometimes he organizes music events and recently he has also spoken about music on the radio.

If you were to ask a well-known German rap duo about their everyday life, they would probably say: "He does this, that, various things." Nils cannot deny a certain affinity for German rap, but he is also interested in most other genres. The fact that names like Ariana Grande and Dua Lipa appear in his annual best lists on the relevant streaming portals is a verifiable fact, but he would never admit it publicly.

Nils hosts the show Mit Kindest Regards on ByteFM.

## Niklas Holle, moderator of standard

Niklas Holle, born in 1987, grew up on the Bay of Lübeck and moved to the Kiel Fjord to study philosophy and musicology. Jazz and similar genres shaped his taste in music, which is also reflected in his practice on the electric guitar.

# Michael Hager, moderator of Negroni Spritz

Michael Hager grew up with oldies and cable TV. When he saw Sinéad O'Connor crying on MTV, he learned that music can evoke all kinds of emotions. As a member of the band Erregung Öffentlicher Erregung, he is now trying to do just that.

Michael Hager worked in the editorial department for many years and hosted the ByteFM magazine for about ten years. In May 2023, he started his own show Negroni Spritz.

## Matthias Westerweller, moderator of Hello Mellow Fellow

»Weller is as much a part of Frankfurt as the Gerippte and Heinz Schenk!«

»When he's at a concert, it's like a seal of approval for me«

»When Weller is DJing, I usually can't leave before he's played the last record.«

Matthias Westerweller, alias Weller, has been a »seal of approval« for over 20 years, and above all he's a somewhat different DJ. Perhaps because he's not tied down, because with his range of different genres he always cheerfully combines the old with the new. And certainly because he's a master at creating a special atmosphere, organizing what he calls a »musical journey, creating exciting connections«. Anyone who thinks Weller is always just a mellow fellow is wrong: he's just as at home on the dance floor, and he really enjoys it.

Do you remember the band or record that made you a music fan?

That could have been " Jack The Ripper " by Casey Jones & The Governors. When I first heard the single, I was about four years old and pretty excited.

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

I see my role as a presenter primarily as introducing listeners to music that they may not have heard before. I am, so to speak, offering them the opportunity to get involved in something that may be new territory for them. I sometimes chat more, sometimes less about the music itself, and sometimes tell more personal things that I associate with the music. For me, moderated radio is interesting because I am always curious about connections and backgrounds - algorithms and automated mood playlists cannot do that.

## Martin Böttcher, moderator of Electro Royale and Time Tunnel

He annoyed Moby and called Wheatus a "one-hit wonder" with almost clairvoyant abilities.

He talked past each other with Takkyu Ishino in front of loud speakers and his eyes lit up when Blake Baxter told him how much the title "Prince of Techno" bored him.

The Bloodhound Gang was unusually tame towards him, as a "German Techno DJ" he entertained the masses in Japan, in Berlin he caused wild parties in Cookies and Tresor.

Martin Böttcher is a music journalist, presenter and DJ.

His motto: Alone in the fight against the guitars of the world.
His love of electronic music began at the age of 12, when he heard Kraftwerk's "Mensch-Maschine" on his older brother's system in Berlin-Charlottenburg.

It continued with breakdancing and the first electro samplers.

At the beginning of the 90s he went to the legendary Berlin clubs of the first techno hours and finally started DJing himself. And it hasn't ended yet.

Martin Böttcher is still looking for unusual sounds and haunting melodies, for good music without trance pathos and embarrassment. And for the stories behind the music.

What do you do when you're not presenting at ByteFM?

I'm a freelance journalist, or more precisely: a freelance music journalist, a freelance culture journalist, a freelance pop journalist. I earn my money mainly from the radio (Deutschlandfunk Kultur and radioeins) and as a writer (Tagesspiegel, Piqd.de). I still DJ from time to time, but no "real" clubs anymore, just smaller things. And when I'm not working, I swim. Swimming, yeah!

Describe the essence of your show Electro Royale in five words. - Electronic, clubby, relaxed, not deadly serious.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

That's a bit unfair because there are so many good shows. But my favorite shows (yes, several) are Karamba by Klaus Fiehe, Back To The Basics by Marcus Maack and Dirk Laubinger's For The Record .

 There are even moments in my life when I listen to guitar music, punk for example. But: the guitarist, the rock star, who wants to be idolized, is as good as dead or rather he smells pretty bad, and unpleasantly of an old, white man. Exciting music comes from other corners. "Alone against the guitars of the world" I mean more like "Destroy what destroys you." Because I'm certainly not alone in this fight anymore either, guitar bashing is currently gaining consensus.

Do you remember the moment in your life that made you a music fan?

I can't remember exactly because it was so long ago, but I think it had something to do with Blondie . And Debbie Harry 's hair .

You have been a specialist in electronic music since the early 90s - whether as a DJ, journalist or consumer. Can you describe how the scene has changed in the last few decades?

Hmm, it's not easy to describe it in a few sentences, but I would put it this way: everything has become more professional and perhaps a bit more boring as a result. The clubs organize the controlled loss of control, the music is produced for a certain genre - and how often I have said: "He/she is a DJ, producer and label owner" I don't want to know. I myself have of course also become more professional and probably more boring. That feeling when I entered a club for the first time and was completely captivated by the simple combination of techno, fog machine, strobe light and basement will never come again. After all, I can still remember it today, which speaks to the great power of that moment – ​​and even today, everyone can have this experience for themselves for the first and only time.

The best compliment from a listener?

It's always nice when someone writes: I'm already looking forward to the next edition. It's even nicer when they say: I was annoyed by this and that track, but I still don't want to be without Electro Royale. The best thing so far was when a couple wrote to me to say that they now always listen to the show with their very young son. And he recognizes my voice. I like.

And finally: your records for the island?
Ricardo Villalobos – “Alcachofa”
T.Raumschmiere – “Heimat”
Burial – “Untrue”
Ellen Allien – “Stadtkind”

## Markus "Bart" Grasseck, moderator of Die-hard

Even though Bart (born in 1987) was not raised directly with hard music, he got to know punk through older friends at the tender age of 11. From there it was not a long way to much more metallic sounds and for many years the only credo was "faster, harder, even faster".

In addition to the extreme forms of metal, more delicate sounds have now found their way back into his life, and alongside the hard rock and heavy metal classics, melancholic, quieter music is also regularly added to the vinyl aficionado's collection. Bart has been working in the music industry for almost 16 years and is fortunate enough to have turned his passion into his profession. Through writing for various magazines and working as a stagehand, he has become increasingly closer to the industry over the years and now works in a management position at one of the most renowned heavy metal labels in the world.

No matter what job or function, the motivation behind it has always been the same: to bring the best songs and greatest bands to as many people as possible. And the show Eingefleischt on ByteFM is now another outlet to pursue this urge.

## Markus Schaper, moderator of 60minutes

And music always beckons...

...and that's why Markus always heads to hidden vinyl oases when he travels, which can then become his little home for hours. Whether Porto, Tokyo or San Francisco, the question is always: Where is the nearest record store?

In the home music room of this cassette-born child, a spectrum put together with curiosity, passion and a pinch of madness is gathered together. Soul, funk, indie, jazz, rock, electronic, ambient, lo-fi school, folk, downbeat and many an exotic cross between genres. His heart also beats for Japanese music beyond the merry-go-round J-pop and for people who raise interesting question marks with a touch of the abstruse in their music.

Markus has been a radio person, presenter, author and music journalist for many years. For Hessischer Rundfunk, he has for years let partygoers glide along on early Sunday mornings with his chillout sets. He once captured this feeling on the mix compilation "Liquid Space - chillelectronicambient". As a DJ he has been active in punk rock discos, at the bar counters here and there, and in the electronic rooms of the U60311.

And last but not least: the most important thing is to discover and rediscover music! And preferably to let others share in it! In 60 minutes.

## Markus Ortmanns, moderator of Crunch

Markus Ortmanns wanted to be on the radio when he was a young child. "Mal Sondock's Hitparade" on WDR was to blame. Extremely unhealthy radio consumption (this all happened in pre-Internet times) led him to all sorts of musical playgrounds; he could never really decide what he liked best. So he just listened to everything. That's why his own radio show often seems so eclectic. This disorder has recently been called "sound ADS" in medical circles.

Markus is "A&R Nord of Modul8 Music". He sporadically produces strenuous music as a member of "Diskus" and "Basalt".

## Marko Pauli, moderator of Atmocity

Marko Pauli works as a freelance radio author and producer. Musically active as video2000 and in the band Musikgruppe

## Mark Kowarsch, moderator of antibody

Mark Kowarsch, born in Detmold, has played in the East Westphalian bands Speed ​​Niggs, Sharon Stoned, Tagesschau, Kommando Schwarzer Freitag and Elektrosushi. Since 2009 he has been releasing music under the name Tortuga Bar.
During his "Cologne phase" (2000-2008) he worked as a journalist for Visions, Intro and various fanzines, founded the "Likely to be dropped DJ Team" with Klaus Cornfield and Rocco Clein (Viva2) and was a resident DJ in Cologne's Gebäude 9 and Stereo Wonderland.
Mark organizes the "Kings of Lo-Fi Festival" and has a monthly column "Der Tonspion Stammtisch" in the online music magazine Tonspion.

Mark: Long before I started making music, radio was the most important thing in my life. Growing up in East Westphalia meant: "Buy yourself a good, expensive radio," because we lived in the "devil's ass," as East Westphalians called our area! So I started listening to the "Hitparade" with Mal Sondock very early on. I sat in front of the radio and recorded everything with a small cassette recorder, later making mixtapes out of it. In Detmold I only got three TV channels, but thanks to the British military stationed here I got the BBC radio station, and that's how I got to know and love John Peel's music. I bought a pack of 10 cassettes almost every week and had fixed appointments in front of the radio every evening.

## Marius Magaard, moderator of kick-off, concert calendar, screwdriver

When Marius isn't hosting cinema events or messing around in more than enough music projects (including Kommando Kant, Me And My Two Horses, Not The Queen, Herr DK, Don Aman), he diligently feeds the ByteFM blog with fresh text material ("content"). The ex-North Frisian and ex-musicologist, born in 1992, likes to write a lot about old and new things, such as album-of-the-week texts, reviews, obituaries and listicles.

Since 2020, Marius has been hosting his show Schraubzieher once a month. This is where his love for noise rock and other related fuck-up music comes to the fore.

## Marcus Maack, moderator of All Samples Cleared!?, BTTB – Back To The Basics, BTTB - X - Series, WobWob! Radio

Marcus has been presenting the show BTTB - Back To The Basics on various channels since 1992.
He plays in clubs on an irregular basis, brings dubstep DJs to Hamburg as part of the WobWob! crew and earns his rent as a software developer.

www.vinylizer.net

What do you do when you're not presenting at ByteFM?
I've been organizing bass parties with five friends for ten years under the name WobWob! I run the website www.recordstores.love - a world map where you can find all the record stores in the world. And I earn my rent as a software developer.

You have been broadcasting with Back To The Basics on various channels for 25 years now. Describe the essence of your show in five words:
The focus has always been 1. bass, 2. dub and 3. hip hop . Plus a lot of 4. enthusiasm and 5. love for this music.

Do you remember the moment in your life that made you a music fan?

First it was a love of radio. When one private station after another started up in the mid-80s, I was constantly scanning the FM spectrum for new stations and programs. I wrote about my discoveries in the school newspaper. And then I discovered something completely different: the British soldiers' station BFBS, which broadcast programs by Tim Westwood, David Rodigan, John Peel and Steve Mason. There were also a few author programs on Radio Bremen 4 (Kai Tölke) and later Radio 107 (Gerd Bischof).

Are there other musicians or DJs who have had a lasting influence on you?

The radio DJs mentioned above, and especially Pressure Drop (who had the legendary BBBC show on MDR Sputnik in the mid-90s) and Coldcut .

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does author radio have for you these days?

As a presenter, I want to be authentic above all. I am not someone who guesses and caters to your taste. I play what I like, and that will often annoy you. I discover new directions that I introduce to you (perhaps you first heard jungle, dubstep, footwork, zouk bass, gqom or wave from me). And I make connections.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

Karamba by Klaus Fiehe , right before BTTB on Thursday. I had been listening to Klaus Fiehe regularly on 1Live long before it started broadcasting - back then his show was called "Raum & Zeit". I am very proud to broadcast on the same station as Klaus. He is unbeatable. And the program texts by Verstärker presenter Dirk Böhme are well worth reading and should be published as a book sooner or later.

The best compliment from a listener?

Since I've been broadcasting for 25 years, there are sometimes people who claim that I've had a decisive influence on their taste in music. That's hard to top, especially when these people now work as DJs themselves and play great music.

And finally: the three records for the island?

Massive Attack – “Blue Lines”
Portishead – “Dummy”
DJ Shadow – “Endtroducing”

## Lynn Steder, moderator of Reeperbahn Festival Container

Lynn was born in Hamburg-Harburg in 2000. As a teenager, she regularly walked around the schoolyard in an Arctic Monkeys T-shirt and a The Strokes patch on her backpack. A few years later, her band shirts are gathering dust in her closet and her bags no longer have patches, but the old indie classics still make it onto the turntable from time to time.

She has always only had two career aspirations - pop star and journalist. After an internship in the ByteFM editorial office in 2021, she didn't want to leave and has been hosting the ByteFM charts in rotation with her lovely colleagues ever since. At least she has come closer to one of her childhood dreams. Perhaps she will still be able to make a career as a pop star at some point, despite her lack of talent. She would definitely have enough stage outfits.

Between 2016 and 2019, Lynn co-organized the Daughterville Festival and the Südwärts Festival. Otherwise, she studies the culture of the metropolis at the Hafencity University of Hamburg and the drinks menus of various localities.

## Lukas Harth, moderator of indigo

Lukas Harth, a textbook choir boy: He didn't give up even after his voice broke and kept singing - for over a dozen years now, he's still in his first indie rock band with his school friends. In between, he did an apprenticeship as a piano maker and after a few years tuning pianos in the field, he tried something completely new: he studied journalism with a focus on politics and economics in Ansbach, Franconia, then did an internship at ByteFM in Hamburg and now - here.

In the show Indigo he plays everything that irritates, overwhelms and completely destroys him.

## Liz Remter, moderator of reverberation, Reeperbahn Festival Container, disturbance of the peace, Städel Mixtape, StadtMagazin, Teenage Kicks, Femmetronica 

Liz grew up on the outskirts of Hamburg among the apple trees of the Altes Land. When the idyllic village life became too monotonous for her, she moved to the other side of the Elbe, where she began to study singing.

But it wasn't just the training of her own voice that fascinated her; the facets of various soul, folk and R&B singers also captivated her from an early age. When you listen to music with Liz, it has also been possible to find various influences from hip hop and rap in her mixtapes for a few years now.

## Leonie Möhring, moderator of disturbance of the peace

Leonie Möhring breathes. It may not be the most unusual hobby, but it is invaluable for general well-being. When she isn't doing that, she likes to speak, sometimes even in front of a microphone. You can hear it here on ByteFM in the programs Das Ehrenwort, ByteFM Klassik and Ruhestörung - the ByteFM podcast, which takes you behind the scenes of live and music culture every Friday.

In your show Das Ehrenwort you play songs that are connected to a word you have chosen. Sometimes literally, sometimes associatively. After over 50 shows with over 50 vocabulary words: do you have a favorite word?

The question is like stirring up a hornet's nest - I could go on forever and a day. I have to admit that I'm pretty picky when it comes to words. There are terms that I just can't stand because of the way they sound (or look); "quasi" for example, or "fountain". And then there's "eindunkeln", "rappelköpfig" or quite simply "Knacks" and "Butter", which I find hard to get excited about.

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

When I was a young adult, someone once said to me that a really good radio show is like the ideal passenger on a long, lonely car journey. It accompanies you with all its heart, shows you things that you would otherwise have missed, entertains you well and - simply doesn't annoy you. Artificial intelligence can't do something like that.

Do you remember the band or record that made you a music fan?

I think that might have been the moment when I was maybe 13 years old and my best friend introduced me to "Rain Dogs" by Tom Waits on a stuffy school bus . Since then, it's been "I won't go anywhere without a little confetti in my hair."

In addition to Das Ehrenwort, you also present the show ByteFM Klassik, where the boundaries between popular and serious music are removed. What do such distinctions mean to you? Or to put it another way: Are such classifications still necessary?

This boundary was once drawn for purely bureaucratic reasons and is somewhat outdated for me personally. Especially at a time when the dividing walls between genres are becoming increasingly flimsy. I am definitely not a fan of fermented categories and absolute judgements. Especially not when they are made from a supposed "ivory tower of good taste". Music should touch people - and there are almost eight billion ways to do that.

In our podcast Ruhestörung you regularly speak with artists such as Ilgen-Nur, John Grant or Danger Dan. Is there a conversation that has particularly inspired you?

Difficult to say. What almost all conversations have in common is the fact that I am always surprised by the openness of the people and how quickly a professional interview setting can dissolve and turn into a lively conversation about all sorts of things. You suddenly find yourself talking to Disarstar about the Way of St. James, to Charlotte Brandi about potted plants, to Max Rieger about honey bees, or laughing until you cry on the phone when Sorry 3000 talk about their feud with a sticker gang. One of the most memorable conversations I had was with John Grant - he impressed me immensely with his (multilingual) eloquence, gentle wisdom and profound story.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

I have to admit that I still haven't got to grips with all of our countless programs. Without claiming to be complete, perhaps a quick list is this: For the completely unknown: Anstoß . To unwind: Golden Glades . On the bike: Von Bullerbü nach Babylon and when you're in a bad mood: something by Till Kober .

## Leif Gütschow, moderator of Elbphilharmonie Mixtape, free play, LiveBytes

Leif was born in 1983 on the outskirts of Hamburg. He used to always walk down in the valley over the bridge by the river near the ponds because that's where Schleswig-Holstein begins and the dog no longer had to be on a leash.

After formative years in fun rock bands, Leif eventually completed his master's degree in cultural anthropology and art history and has been part of ByteFM since 2018, where he leads the CvD team, among other things.

## Lars Florian Walklang, moderator of corridor, mixtape of the listeners, new territory, Reeperbahn Festival Container

LF Walklang himself is interested in good music, stories in the cinema and books, philosophy and the academic subject of "painting and handicrafts". That's why he started studying one of these subjects and studied another.

LF Walklang is the editor-in-chief of ByteFM's Hamburg editorial office. In addition to his own show Korridor, he also hosts the shows ByteFM Charts and Neuland, alternating with his colleagues.

Lars Florian Walklang is an author and illustrator and lives in Hamburg.

## Lars Sieling, moderator of scent organ

Too old for a digital native? Nonsense! Lars Sieling still knows analog modems, mailboxes and the demo scene .

He found his way to ByteFM as a music enthusiast, took care of the website as a web developer, then as head of development he coordinated and planned IT and technology projects and is now an IT consultant.

In his youth he regularly recorded Klaus Fiehe's show "Raum und Zeit" on VHS tape and sometimes rubs his eyes in amazement that he is now on the same wavelength as his personal hero. Musically, he often and very happily falls into the darkness trap, and

not just in his show Duftorgel.

## Knut Benzner, moderator of Urban Landmusik

Knut Benzner, born in 1955, looks better with age and has been doing radio since 1986, i.e. since time immemorial. Always country, sometimes western or blues. He specializes in Memphis, Tennessee and Mississippi as well as the rest of the world. Hence the logical title of his show: Urban Country Music. Yay.

## Klaus Walter, moderator of taz.mixtape, What is Music

Klaus Walter lives in Frankfurt am Main and has been writing about pop culture, football and politics since the mid-1970s. In the 1980s he was an editor at Pflasterstrand magazine and since 1984 he has been a radio DJ at Hessischer Rundfunk. His show "Der Ball ist rund" has been voted the best radio show in Germany several times by readers of the specialist magazines "Spex" and "Intro". It was discontinued at the end of 2008.

In 2005 "Plattenspieler" was published, a book of conversations with Frank Witzel and Thomas Meinecke . The sequel was published in 2009 under the title "Die Bundesrepublik Deutschland". Walter is currently working on a book about the history of Frankfurt subcultures.

Klaus Walter has written for Spex, Frieze, Süddeutsche Zeitung, TAZ, WOZ, Jungle World and Konkret, among others. He also works regularly for DLF, Deutschlandradio Kultur, BR, NDR, WDR and HR.

Teaching: Since the 1990s Klaus Walter has regularly given workshops and seminars on pop and radio.

## Klaus Fiehe, moderator of Karamba

Good day. My name is Klaus Fiehe. I grew up in Westphalia, and for a few years now I have been living with Susanne and Julia in Solingen. I also have a large pond there; sometimes a kingfisher comes by, and you can also see a fox occasionally.

For many years I played the saxophonist, and I got into radio through a chain of coincidences; everyone knows that.

It can happen that I confuse the Black Lips with the Black Lipsticks or with the Chicken Lips; and the end of the song might be called Chicken Shack.

## Karsten Frehe, moderator of Forward The Bass

Karsten Frehe, born in 1966, dreamed of working on the radio when he was 12, and at that time he wanted to play current rock music. In 1994 he co-founded the Free Radio in Kassel. A year later he started the weekly reggae show "Irie Ites" there. He has lived in Hamburg since 2000 and works as an art and geography teacher. He has also been writing for Riddim Magazine since 2001.

"Irie Ites" has grown steadily over the years. Many colleagues have joined. And so, in addition to the show, which is still running in Kassel, a sound system and an online magazine were created. In 2008, a small vinyl label, "Irie Ites Music", was added.

In addition to his preference for dub and roots reggae, he is also enthusiastic about (almost) all other types of Jamaican-influenced offbeat music.

## Kai Bempreiksz, moderator of Hidden Tracks

Kai Bempreiksz, born in Hanover in 1974, lives in exile in Berlin and is mistakenly described as a Bowie fan in John Peel's biography. In his other life, Kai is a nurse. He currently commutes between the operating table, Berlin's record stores and the ByteFM studio.

"We stand around in wind and rain..." was sung by I, Ludicrous and Kai experiences something similar week after week as a long-suffering fan of Hanover 96. Kai Bempreiksz was a volunteer radio presenter at the independent radio station "Radio Flora" in Hanover until 2009, and at ByteFM he looks after the Hidden Tracks program.

In 2004 you interviewed the British music radio pope John Peel. What role did he play for you and your musical socialization?

At the beginning of the 90s I heard John Peel's show for the first time on the British soldiers' radio station BFBS, of which I had been a fan since the mid-80s. It was a great station and it was a practical way to improve your school English. At first I preferred the Top 40 shows, of course, but later I listened exclusively to the Peel shows. When a friend informed me of his death via text message - that was in October 2004 - I was on my bike on my way to the Niedersachsenstadion for Hannover 96's home game. My 96 friend and I were keen to hear Peel's favourite song "Teenage Kicks" in the stadium - but it's not played in Bundesliga stadiums. Three months earlier I had met John Peel in the Maida Vale Studios in London and we talked about, among other things, death metal, FSK and brushing teeth.

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

Radio itself now has a completely different role than it used to. I got to know and love this medium in the late 1970s. I see myself as an old-school radio fan who selects for other fans and presents his own selection. Of course, the personal touch is still important. For me, it's the fact that my washing machine is traditionally running when I record my show. Sometimes you can hear it a little bit too.

Do you have a favorite episode of Hidden Tracks or a program that particularly sticks in your mind?

This of course includes the studio guests and interviewees such as Mulatu Astatke , John Peel, Freiwillige Selbstkontrolle or Larvae from Atlanta, who filmed us during the recording of the show.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

Actually, many, for example What is Music with Klaus Walter or Neuland, the show for the new records. But also Jan Möller's From Büllerbü to Babylon (just the title!). Unfortunately, Michael Kleff is no longer there - I miss his show This Land - Your Land very much. It was great fun listening to this show on a three-week road trip through the USA.

## Jumoke Olusanmi, moderator of Music Around Africa, Silent Fireworks, city ​​portrait

Jumoke Olusanmi grew up in Lagos, Nigeria. After a stopover in Germany, she lived in Barcelona, ​​Spain for several years. As a child, she produced her own radio shows on a cassette recorder, but before ByteFM, she would never have believed that she would still enjoy “real” radio. Jumoke now lives in Hamburg.

## Johnny Moonlight, moderator of Die-hard

There is not a cloud in the red night sky over Hamburg, a cool wind blows through the streets.
A shooting star falls in the sky, then another, more and more glowing lines flare up and disappear as immediately as they appeared. From somewhere a guitar melody sounds, so beautiful and clear that no person in the world has ever heard it.

In the glaring light of the moon, Johnny Moonlight steps onto the earth. He brushes the dust from his shoulders and pauses briefly before tensing his body, throwing his head back and breaking out into a fervent wolf howl. The guitar sound gets louder and louder, it covers the whole city. The lost souls who roam through the gutter gather in a circle and shudder.

But they are not afraid.
They see the glowing heart on the lapel of Johnny Moonlight's leather jacket and are filled with warmth.

## Johannes Wallat, moderator of double bass

Johannes Wallat learned the most important key combinations on the cassette recorder at an early age: with his fingers on record and pause, he would spend hours in front of the radio and develop amazing reflexes. An extensive cassette archive is a testament to times long past and to his socialization through radio veteran and ByteFM colleague Klaus Fiehe. Even in the digital age, he remains loyal to the radio, as a listener in front of the speakers and as a presenter behind the microphone. In his Kontrabass show, he does what he loves most every other Sunday: playing music and talking about music. It's about hip hop and house, but not only that.

## Johanna Schmidt, moderator of Praxis Pop, taz.mixtape

Johanna Schmidt, who grew up in the idyllic Hessian region (400 inhabitants, no public transport), is the editor-in-chief at ByteFM and, after spending six years in Munich, now lives in Hamburg. Her musical preferences are as far apart as her last chosen places of residence. They oscillate (she only knows the word thanks to Tocotronic and uses it completely inflationary in her homework) between "music by people who look like they never smile" and "real bangers". The latter - as an example, "Crying At The Discoteque" by Alcazar - is also completely unironic.

When she's not in the Byte bunker, she puts her energy into writing texts for the SZ and completing a degree that seems to be started and/or abandoned by every second person: sociology. To recharge her energy, Johanna goes for a walk with her dog at the harbor.

## Jan Möller, moderator of From Bullerbü to Babylon

Jan Möller is in his mid-40s, lives in Hamburg and likes to wear a hat. Jan likes Finland and music.

## Ingo Scheel, moderator of Flashback

"I come from Kiel, the city by the sea...": Ingo Scheel is a boy from Kiel, but has been living in Hamburg for almost twenty years, together with his girlfriend Tine and their daughter Anni.

His pop socialization in fast forward: Beatles and The Who . Sex Pistols and The Jam . The Smiths and Hüsker Dü . Soundgarden and Mudhoney . Swervedriver and The Cult. Today, his record shelf contains pretty much everything from Percy Faith and Jacques Dutronc to Hot Snakes and Kvelertak. But Ingo doesn't just listen to music; since a school project in the distant past, he has also been active in bands, including The Empire Freak Shop, Armstrong and currently Panicburg City.

As a freelance journalist, Ingo works for numerous websites and magazines, including stern, n-tv.de, CINEMA, laut.de and MINT Magazin. The formative radio voice of his childhood and youth: Wolf-Dieter Stubel and his "Internationale Hitparade".

Greatest heroine: Anni
Greatest hero: Paul Weller

## Ingo Sänger, moderator of Taxi Nights

Ingo Sänger was born in 1968 and currently lives with his family in Dortmund. Towards the end of the 80s, when hip hop , dancehall, house and breakbeats could be played together in the same evening, he started playing records more or less randomly. Ingo's regular club stations were Logo in Bochum, Rote Liebe in Essen and the Mekka Sound Sessions in Cologne. From 1995 onwards he also shook up the radio landscape for almost ten years on WDR Eins Live (including on the show Treibhaus) and traveled the country as a DJ. As well as various DJ gigs here and there, Ingo Sänger currently has a regular club night in the Dortmund jazz club domicil.

He also produces music as part of the duo Westpark Unit and runs the vinyl/CD label Farside Records in cooperation with Winni "On The Rock" Petersmann. Musical productions with Matt Flores and Henry L are in the pipeline. In addition, Ingo has completed a degree in geography, which has had little influence on the musical direction of his activities so far. But who knows?

## Henning Tudor-Kasbohm, moderator of mixtape of the listeners, reverberation, new territory, setlist, Tracks of the Day, VoiceMail

Punk, hip hop , Pet Shop Boys , jazz – unlike the cool suburban kids, the young Henning Tudor-Kasbohm did not identify with any scene. Today, the literary scholar and fantasy researcher loves all styles of music, as long as the songs are fresh. That limits things a lot and makes listening to music hard but rewarding work.

At ByteFM, you can find Henning Tudor-Kasbohm as editor-in-chief and author in the editorial department; he also works behind the scenes at the ByteFM Academy . Outside of ByteFM, he has played in countless bands and today produces strange music.

## Heinz-Jürgen Maaßen, moderator of In Between Ears, Rock-Ola

Heinz-Jürgen Maaßen, born in 1953, lives in southern Germany near Heidelberg.

From 2002 to the end of 2007 he was part of the music editorial team at Bermuda.Funk (free radio Rhein/Neckar) in Mannheim and presented the two programs Rock-Ola (Beat, Rock'n'Roll, R'n'B, Soul, Blues, Garage, Surf, Psychedelic etc. from past decades) and Bermuda.Music (new presentations from the areas of jazz, blues, world music, singer-songwriter etc.).

Since the first day of broadcasting on January 11, 2008, our presenter has been taking us through the early history of pop music with his show Rock-Ola - every week. Heinz-Jürgen Maaßen also proves that he is not only interested in rock 'n' roll, R 'n' B, beat, blues, garage, psychedelic, surf and folk with his second show on ByteFM: In Between Ears provides acoustic ear candy between jazz and classical. We spoke to the ByteFM presenter from the very beginning about, among other things, musical awakenings and the difficult process of acquiring music in the 1960s.

 remember that in the 1950s a new show appeared on WDR: Chris Howland presented a music show in broken German once a week after “Sandmännchen”, in which, alongside the usual German hits, you could often hear hits from the US charts (rock 'n' roll, R 'n' B, doo-wop, etc.). Compared to that, German hits soon looked pretty pale. But the real initial spark was “Love Me Do” by the Beatles – the song blew me away, it was something completely new, just for me. I wanted more of that. But that wasn't so easy in 1962. Records – if they were available at all – were unaffordable (the single cost 5 DM, the LP 18 DM) and there was nothing on German radio. There were some bright spots, however, thanks to BFBS, the English-language evening program on Radio Luxembourg, the Dutch stations (Radio Hilversum) and the pirate stations (Radio Caroline, Radio London, etc.), but these could only be received on medium wave with a lot of noise. To my annoyance, the presenters (there were no women among them) always talked over the music. That's a horror story for the young fans of ByteFM.

 When did your passion for jazz start?

An older brother of a school friend was a jazz aficionado and one day he snapped at me because of my ignorance and told me that I should really listen to jazz. In the Amsterdam Record Shop in Duisburg, I bought the LP "Greatest Hits" by Miles Davis from the bargain bin for a "Heiermann". After listening to the record several times, the spark had jumped and I understood that it is worth engaging with any kind of music, especially beyond the categories "I like it" or "it's a matter of taste". And it has remained that way to this day.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation for our listeners?

Yes, of course: Golden Glades , Die Welt ist eine Scheibe , Standard , Urban Landmusik and all the others I haven't mentioned. It's also worth looking in the ByteFM archive for the shows that have unfortunately already been discontinued, for example Rumble or This Land.

## Heinrich Oehmsen, moderator of The Heinrich Manoehver

Heinrich Oehmsen, born in 1954, has been interested in popular music since he heard "The Last Time" by the Rolling Stones in 1965. He has a particular love for all genres of Afro-American music, from free jazz to funk and soul to hip hop . He was socialized in the 1960s with rock and blues in particular.

From 1993 to 2010 he worked as a culture editor at the Hamburger Abendblatt, for which he still works as a writer. Since 2010 he has been a lecturer at Leuphana University Lüneburg. Together with Alexander Schulz he conceived the Reeperbahn Festival in 2006.

## Gregor Kessler, moderator of Schliemann's Soundbox

In 1989, Gregor Kessler, barely of legal age, asked Kurt Cobain in his first interview why the bassist of the band had such short hair . Later, he often assured himself that he had no more to do with the man's suicide than all the other poorly prepared music journalists. For reasons of indulgence, he has since then diligently delved into all sorts of footnotes of music history. Ongoing research projects: British post-punk 1978-82, New Zealand pop 1981-89, feedback between hormone levels and fuzz pedals in American garages 1965-67...

To ensure that the accumulated records get out to people, he occasionally plays music in bars and clubs in Hamburg. To ventilate the useless information, he also broadcasts on ByteFM.

## Götz Bühler, moderator of The Round Hour

Götz Bühler not only presents the current favorite music of the editors of "Jazz thing" in a mixtape once a month on ByteFM, but also "Die Runde Stunde" every 4 weeks on Wednesday. Here he presents his rarest and most beautiful records - hand-picked from his archive, which experts believe is far too large. Mostly exclusive, definitely exquisite and guaranteed to be on a theme.

## Götz Adler, moderator of The world is flat

Götz Adler, born in 1970, began his first radio show in 1988 with a Slayer song.

Since then, he has been very interested in conveying good music via radio. He has hosted countless music shows on Germany's first free radio station, Radio Dreyeckland.
After wild early years in metal, he has been playing and presenting mostly current music ranging from indie to post-rock and electronica in the Frantic Freakshow since 1992.

Götz earns his living at the Freiburg music mail order company Flight 13, where he listens to new records every day, reviews them and absorbs musical input.

After going through a fine filter system, he drips his distillates into the digital ether for an hour each week in his show.

## Goetz Steeger, moderator of Inside Music, PopKocher

Goetz Steeger has been on the road for a while, as a musician since the 80s with bands like Rotes Haus, the Goetzen and User, and since 2012 under his own name. The press called his releases "diamonds of autonomous music", the album "Am Ende der Parade" was on the shortlist for the German Record Critics' Award in the "Alternative" category in 2019.

As a radio author, he launched the "PopKocher" in the late 80s (!), a permanent institution of radio pop culture until 2019, which is now continued at ByteFM. In addition, he has worked as a freelance author for the NDR Nachtclub and Deutschlandfunk Kultur since the beginning of 2000. Goetz Steeger hosted the program Inside Music for ByteFM until 2011 and designed the sound design in cooperation with Oliver Stangl.

## Gisbert zu Knyphausen, moderator of Krachgarten rest area

Gisbert zu Knyphausen is a musician, writes songs on the guitar or piano and sings and tours the country. Either under his own name or with his band Husten, and briefly with the band Kid Kopphausen, which he founded with Nils Koppruch. He is currently working with the pianist Kai Schumacher on an album with new interpretations of Franz Schubert's art songs. When he is not making music, he listens to music. Lots of guitar, a bit of classical, a bit of electronic - everything that touches and is fun and also very happy: sad songs.

## Gardy Stein, moderator of Forward The Bass

Gardy is a mother of two (daughter *1998 and son *2006), studied African Studies and graduated in 2003 (Magistra Artium) from the University of Hamburg, where she is currently doing her doctorate. Since 2021 she has been working as a research assistant in a research project at the Institute of English and American Studies that deals with Global Englishes; Gardy also works part-time as a freelance writer for Riddim Magazine, Reggaeville.com and IrieItes.de.

Her love of music took her all over the world (America, Africa, Jamaica...) from an early age, and to this day she has retained a big heart and open ears for the diversity of Caribbean rhythms, global sounds and profound lyrics.

On ByteFM she hosts the show Forward The Bass, alternating with Karsten Frehe.

## Friederike Herr, moderator of podcast

As an intern from the very beginning at ByteFM, Friederike soon moved from the editorial office to the microphone, where she presents the ByteFM magazine and after a stopover at the university in Kiel, she has been heard in the same place again since the end of 2017 and also (almost) every morning on the show "10 bis 11".

Otherwise, she also likes to DJ outside the studio, preferably all kinds of rock'n'roll and soul (and country is also included) and is on the road with her own band called "No Sugar". She is also a passionate concert-goer and organizer and also likes to run around as a stage manager at various festivals. The latter includes the Reeperbahn Festival and every year (in pre-pandemic times) at the end of October in Florida, at The FEST in Gainesville.

Since 2021, Friederike has been producing and hosting the podcast "Das ist Kunst - der Podcast der Deichtorhallen Hamburg" - a cooperation between the Deichtorhallen Hamburg and ByteFM.

## Frank Lechtenberg, moderator of One Track Pony

Frank Lechtenberg has come a long way, at least from the Lower Rhine to East Westphalia-Lippe, where he hoards his record treasures near Bielefeld. Musically socialized with the Smiths , Lloyd Cole and New Order , his spectrum has expanded more and more, so that he definitely knows what he is talking about. He

started making radio in the early 90s on local radio in North Rhine-Westphalia, then moved on to public broadcasting and also television. After his doctorate, some of his colleagues liked to call him the "radio doctor". Today, Frank Lechtenberg's main job is explaining journalism and audio production to students at the East Westphalia-Lippe University of Applied Sciences.

## Fionn Birr, moderator of 808 – the rap show

Hip hop in the 96th semester. Fell into a pot of alphabet soup as a child. Writes and speaks with, about and from music.

## Diviam Hoffmann, moderator of A Pot of Gold, LiveBytes Berlin, taz.mixtape

Diviam Hoffmann was born in Hanover and lives in Berlin. After studying literature and media studies, she now works as a freelance author for the taz, NDR, WDR and Deutschlandfunk,

among others. At ByteFM, Diviam hosted the ByteFM magazine, the ByteFM Mixtape and the taz.mixtape for a long time and has also worked off-air in various places.

Her show Ein Topf aus Gold has been broadcast once a month since 2012.

Do you remember the band or record that made you a music fan?

My mother had a compilation of roots reggae and ska called "Roots Of Reggae II". We listened to it a lot when I was a kid. Although it's basically just a not particularly exciting resale compilation, there are some really great songs on it, like Desmond Dekker's "007 Shanty Town" and Phyllis Dillon's "Perfidia".

Do you have a favorite episode of A Pot of Gold or a program that you particularly remember?

A few years ago I did a special on Jamila Woods . I would have loved to have spent more time on it, but it turned out well nonetheless. There was also a lot of love in the specials on “ Cut ” by The Slits and Nina Simone .

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

I am a big fan of the ByteFM Magazines by Vanessa Wohlrath , Christa Herdering and Michael Hager , from whom I have learned a lot. But I also always have a few What is Music programs with me - for long train journeys, for example. And Golden Glades for golden hours. I get inspiration from Verstärker and Kontinuum.

#@ Björn Lünstäden, disc jockey

Björn Lünstäden presents DJs from Hamburg's nightlife every 4 weeks on Saturday evenings in the show "Electric Nightflight" under the name "Kollektiv Neustadt" .

Björn was born in Hamburg and grew up on the outskirts. At the age of 17 he started making music and later producing. He also dared to try his hand at the turntables. Music, one can say without a wink, is his obsession. He also studies and works in the social sector.

## Felix "Felox" Mountains ( Groove Crates ), disc jockey

Felox is a DJ from Hamburg and founder of the 45/7 Vinyl Club . Every fourth Thursday of the month at midnight, the 45/7 Mixes are broadcast on the "Groove Crates" show : National and international DJs present a varied selection of pieces. Whether soul, disco, jazz, dub, funk, house, edits or obscure - only 7" vinyl singles are played. Here, DJ culture meets a format-based concept.

## Lena Bossmann ( Femmetronica ), disc jockey

The things Lena has to explain most often are where Saarland is, what Anatolian Funk is and how she reconciles feminism and her SSIO fandom. The things Lena mostly wants to find out are the typical to the craziest artists of a genre niche, which she then spends several months researching.

After her favorite children's book brought her to Hamburg and she found her way into radio alongside her linguistics studies, she now indulges this passion as a presenter at ByteFM. Here she presents 10bis12, the ByteFM magazine and also the occasional container.

## Sven Bruhns ( Soulfood ), disc jockey

Sven Bruns aka DJ Suppe is a member of the incredible Soulfoodcrew , who have been rocking dance floors in popular clubs for a good 15 years with their secret funk-Latin-70s-breaks recipe.

Their regular Soulfood event in Kiel's Luna Club with returning guests such as Disco Diamant, Mirko Machine (FotM), DJ MAD (Beginner), DJ Suro or even the legendary Soulrabbi has resulted in many contacts outside of Schleswig-Holstein. The guys now not only celebrate their Soulfood party in Hamburg and Kiel, but also play their rare records in Münster, Cologne, Brigg (CH) and Dortmund.

## Tim Lorenz ( MFOC ), disc jockey

Even as a teenager, Tim Lorenz aka Superdefekt/sdfkt. never left the house without a mixtape in his jacket pocket, always ready to get on other people's nerves with his excellent taste in music. The career choice of DJ was therefore an obvious one.

In the techno euphoria of the early 1990s, he founded various DJ teams with Ralf Köster (3DJs & 1 Joint, Modern Bar Music), and finally, after a few detours through Hamburg's nightlife (Lounge, Tempelhof), their Sunday MFOC event ended up in the Golden Pudel Club, where they have now resided for almost 30 years (unfortunately with a few involuntary breaks recently due to fires and the pandemic).

At the same time, Lorenz and Köster published the fanzine "Fachblatt für Synapsenmassage" in the early 90s, and the former has remained true to writing to this day, including through articles about music and video games in De-Bug, Groove, Rolling Stone and Musikexpress.

## Dirk "nosed" Laubinger, moderator of For The Record

Dirk Laubinger owes his early musical education to his older brother. He introduced him to rap and reggae in the late 1980s. Later, he also listened to house music, although it took a few years before he started to like it.

Ten years later, he began collecting records intensively. First, rap, then reggae, funk and soul, and finally house, techno and jazz.

## Dirk Domin, moderator of Le Monde diplomatique Mixtape, depth of field

Born, raised and still living in the city that Johannes Rau described as the hyphen between the Rhineland and Westphalia: Wuppertal.

Radio person since 2007. He is also the speaker of the audio edition of the German “Le Monde diplomatique”.

After studying history, he works as a freelance journalist, speaker and DJ. And to improve his bank balance and out of interest in wine, Dirk works in a wine shop - of course they also have record players.

## Dirk Böhme, moderator of amplifier

Dirk Böhme, born in Karlsruhe, has finally settled in his favorite city, Hamburg, after successful guest appearances in Cologne and the Southern Palatinate. Since 1995 (!) he has channeled his musical sense of mission on the radio with the successful show Verstärker, initially for Querfunk in Karlsruhe and since 2008 also on ByteFM.

The principle of Verstärker follows the three cool Ls: performance, solution, pleasure. And yet the “German Gilles Peterson” (Dax Werner) has always remained human.

As Global CEO, Böhme is examining the IPO of his most important brand and has been one of the most important communists in the world since the merger of Verstärker with smaller companies such as Kraft Foods, Volkswagen and Twitter.

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

Thank you for the question, although I could never answer it as well as the great Rocko Schamoni : “When I drive through the cities on my Never-Ending Germany Tour since 1986 and listen to the radio, desperately scrolling through the stations, searching for music that touches my heart and inspires my spirit, one image always comes to mind. France in summer, by the sea, on the Atlantic coast, the so-called Silver Coast, hundreds of kilometers of fine sandy beach, mostly deserted ‒ and then suddenly two blue flags, about a hundred meters apart ‒ and thousands of people are lying around these two flags ‒ and they all go into the water between these two flags when the lifeguard gives his signal. They swim carefully out a few meters and then obediently lie back down in the fleshy bed on the beach. What they don’t notice is that to their left and right and in front of them lies the endless sea. That's how I feel about the music scene in Germany: People listen to music on the radio everywhere, in the car, in the office, in the workshop, all day long - and always and everywhere the same few hundred songs. On the oldies radio the same songs from the past, on the chart radio the songs from today. As if there was nothing more. As if there wasn't a whole ocean full of music, big, deep and wild, that you could dive into, that you could refresh yourself in, that you could drown in. If only they knew about it. If someone would tell them. If someone would teach them. I want to swim and dive as far and as deep as I can. And I would like to burn the blue flags."

Do you have a favorite issue of Verstärker or a program that particularly sticks in your mind?

It's usually the special shows that stick in my mind: about Ol' Dirty Bastard , A Tribe Called Quest , Stereolab or, most recently, the free game about the death of Mark E. Smith . Basically, though, my favorite amplifier is always the one that's just been produced.

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation?

These are all those who are open to the topic and yet present in an entertaining way. I like the always relaxed chatterboxes like Klaus Fiehe (Karamba), Jan Möller (Von Bullerbü nach Babylon) or Soetkin Elbers (Brüssel Zentral), as well as the journalistically fine-grained presentations by Diviam Hoffmann (Ein Topf aus Gold), Juliane Reil (ByteFM Klassik) or Christoph Reimann (Regeler rauf, Regler runter). I am always happy when I am surprised - by a hit I have never heard of, but especially when a show manages to open doors to spaces I had never known existed. Sebastian Reier's show Groovie Shizzl is a particular revelation for me, especially since I also really appreciate him as a humorist.

## Dennis Witjes, moderator of Disorder

Dennis was born and grew up in the small Lower Rhine region, right on the Dutch border. As a child, he was exposed to British and Dutch pirate radio stations on his parents' kitchen radio. It was primarily the interesting mix of music paired with short, snappy and yet informative presentations that prompted him to simulate his own radio shows in his bedroom at an early age. Various family members were hired as newsreaders.

Through his constant passion for music, Dennis made a "comeback" to the radio world quite by chance during his studies: he became part of the music editorial team at the Düsseldorf University Radio.
In addition to his show for ByteFM, he still presents for the Düsseldorf University Radio today.

## Danny Steinmeyer, moderator of ByteFM Mixtape

Danny knows what you don't know and would like to know what you can't. As editor-in-chief and head of technology, he looks after our Hamburg studio, is the guy for new discoveries and ensures that the broadcasting runs smoothly.

When he's not working under his desk or throwing a computer out of the window, you're guaranteed to find him at a DJ booth or on stage with one of his mostly mediocre music projects.

Danny is also a proven expert in all things off-road punk and secretly listens to Blink 182.

## Conor Körber, moderator of Order must be, Reeperbahn Festival Container

Conor Körber was born in Berlin-Kreuzberg and grew up in Mallorca, ending up in the East Westphalian metropolis of Rheda-Wiedenbrück at the age of 15. He was only able to get over this dramatic decline with the help of very sad music. In the East Westphalian province, however, he not only got to know Joy Division and Anne Clark (a few decades too late), but also the fascination of making radio.

This has continued to this day: from the small youth online station, he went to the campus radio, to WDR and also to ByteFM. Thanks to many hours on worn-out sofas in the music department of the campus radio, Conor's taste in music has expanded a lot, so that music from the current millennium is also included, and even songs in a major key. In addition to listening to music and talking about music, he has been DJing for a few years now.

Conor Körber has been hosting the Reeperbahn Festival Container at ByteFM since May 2019 and the show Ordnung muss sein since spring 2024.

## Clarissa Lorenz, moderator of orbit

Clarissa Lorenz was born in Baden-Baden. Socialized early on with soul, breakbeats and jazz, she has retained her childlike curiosity and looks forward to the young music scenes of the world, especially those influenced by jazz. Her first concert visit must have been sometime in 2007, when she was able to see the great Amy Winehouse live. Since then, going to concerts and festivals has been one of her absolute favorite activities. In 2022, she helped organize the first edition of the Fluid Festival. After studying in Marburg and gaining her first radio experience at the local free radio station, she now lives in Lüneburg. Since 2020, she has been hosting the bi-weekly Orbit show on ByteFM, which sometimes revolves around hot new releases and sometimes offers a musical excursion into past decades. Music for open ears, open hearts and zero expectations.

## Christoph Twickel, moderator of Tropical Institute

Christoph Twickel, born in 1966, lives as a journalist and author in Hamburg, works as a radio presenter for NDR and ByteFM, and as an author for Spiegel Online, Spex, Brand Eins and others.

In 2006 he published the book "Hugo Chávez. A Biography" with Edition Nautilus. In 2003 he published "Shops, Sheds, Bars. A History of Hamburg Pop Culture" with the same publisher and the interview book "We are the Projectile" (2007) together with Karl-Heinz Dellwo and Tina Petersen.

From 1999 to 2003 he was editor-in-chief and editor-in-chief of the city magazine Szene Hamburg. In September 2010 his book "Gentrifidingsbums oder Eine Stadt für Alle" was published (Edition Nautilus).

## Christoph Reimann, moderator of Controller up, controller down

Christoph studied pop music and is now making the most of it.

## Christoph Möller, moderator of pop filter

Christoph Möller loves drinking good coffee. His closest friends call him Pop. In 2009, during an internship at ByteFM, he realized that pop criticism could be a profession. He studied cultural studies and aesthetic practice in Hildesheim and has been working as a music critic and editor at Deutschlandfunk Kultur since 2017. His favorite ICE route is Leipzig-Berlin.

## Christian Tjaben, moderator of Blog&Roll, Canteen, new territory, School Of Rock

Christian Tjaben heard a radio show by John Peel for the first time around 1981. Before that, he had only heard the “Internationale Hitparade” with Wolf-Dieter Stubel.

In the 80s, he played Korg and Yamaha synthesizers, a Fender Rhodes electric piano, Roland rhythm machines, and an Atari computer, among other things. Later, he played records (including so-called “acid jazz,” “rare groove,” “dub,” “trip hop,” “ambient,” and various types of “ hip hop, ” etc.) in places called Fun Club, Nirvana , Babylon, Mondo Bar, and Boogaloo.

He can speak English quite well, because for a few years he brought musicians and DJs to Germany who otherwise wouldn’t have understood him. He also studied with the musicologists at the university, but then preferred to go straight into pop life. For example, he headed the editorial team of the magazine "Style&The Family Tunes" for 15 years, which he also co-founded.

Christian has now completed the Hamburg-Berlin-Hamburg residency transition and is now working freelance.

## Christa Herdering, moderator of ByteFM Mixtape, mixtape of the listeners, Pharmacy, StadtMagazin

Christa Herdering is a classic career changer. First school, training, job, boredom.
Then studies + work + radio = never bored again!
She used to live and work in Düsseldorf, now in Hamburg.

Dear Christa, a question for you as an acoustic pharmacist: Which music is your miracle cure?

This of course depends on the situation and is very individual. As a pharmacist, I would have to ask: "How do the symptoms manifest themselves?", "Are there any allergies/intolerances?", "Have you tried XY before?" Basically, I believe in the healing power of music!

Describe your show Pharmacy in five words. - Antidepressants and amphetamines without a prescription!

Do you remember the moment that made you a music fan?

But I still remember quite clearly how I became a music radio fan. It was around the time 1Live started broadcasting in 1995, when the evening program featured bands that I had previously only known from mixtapes or music magazines. I grew up in the country, so there weren't many ways to get to the music that I liked. The "cult complex" became a regular evening ritual for me, or Klaus Fiehe's show "Raum und Zeit" at the weekend. I thought to myself, playing music and then being able to talk about it, that's great! I stayed awake at night or set my alarm to record some concerts.

In times of algorithms and automated playlists: How do you personally define your role as a presenter? What importance does moderated radio have for you?

I like talking about music and making connections that no algorithm would ever come up with. Breaks are also good. But I don't like too much monologue. Ultimately, it's about discovering something and I don't have to recite everything to people.

Do you have a favorite episode of Pharmacy or a show that particularly sticks in your mind?

Now and then - rarely, but it does happen - I have studio guests with whom I talk for an hour about their music or their work. I particularly remember the show with Eric Pfeil on November 18, 2015. You can talk to him about music for hours and it's very entertaining.

## Christa Helbling, moderator of wavelength

At 13, Christa Helbling regularly went to the small town train station kiosk and bought all the music magazines that were on offer. At the same time, she tried her hand at playing the keyboard for the first time (in a ska band) – and can still be found behind synthesizers and the like today (not in any ska band).

She now lives in Winterthur, Switzerland, and has been working as a music editor for around ten years: currently at SRF 3 and SRF Virus, before that at Radio Stadtfilter. She also writes as a freelance journalist for various music and culture magazines.

On ByteFM, she presents the monthly show Wellenlänge and looks at the network of a band or solo act. She is always on the lookout for the undiscovered and the surprising. And lets herself be carried along by the most beautiful waves.

## Burghard Rausch, moderator of Rock The Casbah

Born in West Berlin (grew up within sight of the stage entrance of the legendary Titania Palace in Steglitz, when the Lords performed there as the opening act for the premiere of the Beatles

film “A Hard Days Night”) Vinyl collector since the 60s, drummer since the mid-60s, musician, composer, lyricist (Rolling Coins – 60s, Agitation Free – 70s & 2000s, Bel Ami – 80s) and DJ (Sun, Park, Tact, Sound) since the 70s, presenter, music journalist and author at RIAS Berlin since the mid-70s (RIAS-Treffpunkt, Zeitklang, Rock Over RIAS), youth radio DT 64 (later MDR-Sputnik) (Rock It), Radio Bremen Vier (Rausch Hour), Radio Bremen Eins, Funkhaus Europa (Café Mondial), NordwestRadio (Globale Dorfmusik, RockNach10), Radio Bremen Fernsehen/N3 (Absolut Live), RadioEins (SFB/ORB) (Let's Rock), NDR-Info (NachtclubClassics).

Co-author of "Stationen - The trends of the rock era in the mid-80s" (with Joachim Deicke), co-author of the rock music lexicon (2 volumes Europe, 2 volumes overseas), editor, compiler, biographer and author of the CD series "NDW - From grey cities walls / Vol. 1 to 4 (Bear Family).

Also editor, compiler, biographer and author of the CD series “Kraut!" / Vol. 1 to 4 (Bear Family).

## Benjamin Löhner, moderator of Beat Repeat

Benjamin Löhner, alias jazz:pa, is a hip hop lover. Even as a teenager, he was drawn to turntables, all his pocket money ended up in record stores and all his spare time was spent searching for the perfect mix. Since he moved to Nuremberg to study, he has regularly been behind the turntables in clubs, organized concerts in cultural venues and hosted shows on Radio Z and ByteFM. Hip hop is still his great love. And it simply cannot exist without the "roots" of old soul, dirty funk and smoky jazz. But because the present is so incredibly exciting, Benjamin Löhner regularly puts out feelers in the direction of bass music and future beats. The main thing is hip hop!

## Axel Sandig, moderator of The Free Fall

Axel Sandig remains loyal to the Elbe. He grew up in Dresden and has lived in Hamburg since 2009 and works for the music software manufacturer Steinberg.

His musical socialization would have almost been smothered in the rave of the nineties if it hadn't been for that one fate-changing record. A good friend played it back then and after that everything was suddenly in its right place again.

In his free time, Axel Sandig likes to play on electronic sound generators: Surkid

Do you remember the moment that made you a music fan?

I've been a music fan ever since I listened through my parents' record collection as a child, but a magical moment came years later: While I was studying in a dreary small town, I went to the apartment of a good friend of mine who was subletting from an elderly lady. It was raining and his room smelled a bit like old people's rooms sometimes do, but mixed with the smell of his Van Nelle tobacco, which he secretly scattered everywhere. We actually wanted to study for an exam. Instead, we listened to his record collection, starting with "Kid A" and "Amnesiac" by Radiohead . I was hooked as soon as I heard " Everything In Its Right Place " - a real ear-opener!

Do you have a favorite episode of Der Freies Fall or a program that particularly sticks in your memory?

I remember the May 9, 2016 edition well because Radiohead had released "A Moon Shaped Pool" just one day before. Of course, I really wanted to have a song on the show. The download album had a sample rate of 48 kHz, while I always prepare my show at 44.1 kHz. I made an embarrassing mistake during the conversion and so the song "Daydreaming" played almost nine percent slower. A friend later said it sounded a little like Thom Yorke had taken a sleeping pill.

The nicest compliment from a listener?

This actually existed before my time at ByteFM. During my studies I was able to present a similar format for the university station. We even had our own FM frequency, but it was only very regional and could no longer be received properly in the next town. A retired listener who lives there wrote to me saying that he had bought a directional antenna just for my show!

Do you have a favorite show on ByteFM or a recommendation for our listeners?

German rap has been on ByteFM since April 2020. And I realize that I could certainly do a lot of things to find out what the younger generations are actually interested in. But I can also just listen to German rap. That's why I like the show!

## Arne Schumacher, moderator of Trail Of Songs

Music as a great passion and as an emotional home - this has accompanied him since childhood. Arne Schumacher grew up in Bremen. At an early age (thanks in part to the radio) he was very lucky to be able to discover very different types of music for himself. From the Beatles to contemporary jazz of all kinds, from progressive rock styles to folk, blues, soul and the work of so many great singer/songwriters: this became the basis for everything that followed.

He was a writer for the music magazine "Sounds" and wrote for daily newspapers, city magazines and jazz papers. For years he designed and presented a number of author programs at Radio Bremen, often in the style crossover. Eventually he was able to move between styles as an editor for Jazz & Pop/Pop & Jazz. Today he works again as a freelance journalist. Arne Schumacher lives in Bremen and Hamburg.

## Annette Stiekele, moderator of forest walk

Annette Stiekele, born in 1970, lives as a freelance journalist and author in Hamburg. She works for the Hamburger Abendblatt, the German Press Agency and NDR Info, among others. For her, a life without music is possible but pointless.

## Andreas van der Wingen, moderator of around the world

Born on January 8, 1970 as Andreas Hubert van der Wingen. Vander (street name) lives in Düsseldorf, has been DJing vinyl for over 30 years and was the singer of the Kiesgroup. He also played bass in the punk band Oiro and currently sings in the Hamburg-Düsseldorf project Van der Brügge. With a bit of luck, you can also catch him on various theater stages across the country.

## André Langenfeld, moderator of Schöner Wohnen

André Langenfeld is a real (East) Berliner and he has been going to the disco ever since he was allowed to – although in his memory this happened much earlier than was actually allowed. In any case, this and the endless and great synthesizer sounds on the radio in the 80s had a big impact on him. He was also able to actively experience how all the favorite music of his teenage years was constantly reinventing itself, developing and growing in the form of hip hop , house, techno, trip hop, drum and bass, garage, dubstep, etc. and how these genres have now become an integral part of the mainstream.

Today, André Langenfeld is still interested in what is happening "now", but even more in what is happening "next". His style could best be described as "new listening", listening to new music, but also hearing new things in music. Although this can also be older music from the shelf, which can certainly be heard in a new way. Keyword context. In the shows in which he presents music that he likes and likes at the moment, everything is far less cerebral than it reads or sounds. He sees himself first as a DJ and second as a journalist, as a DJ who has been doing radio since 1990, started at DT64 and Rockradio B with the hip hop show "Yo! Show", then created "Saturday Nightflights" and the "Hip Hop Soundgarden " at Fritz.

And now he is reorganizing himself and you with "Schöner Wohnen" on ByteFM.

"Schöner Wohnen" - charming and a little bit silly, this name expresses how little the music on the show wants to be pigeonholed. Associations are of course still welcome. "Musical interior designer" or "room acoustician", that sounds great, doesn't it?!

## Alper Kurtoglu, moderator of Love Songs

"A German, a Dutchman and a Belgian meet, they don't know what to do with each other and call it Aachen." Known as the forgotten birthplace of Kool Savas and the techno duo Elektro Willi & Sohn, Alper Kurtoglu calls this place his forced home: despite long periods in Hamburg, Cologne and Istanbul, he always remembered that he hadn't turned off the stove at home.

Classically educated through high school, paid for free drinks evenings through music and mechanical engineering studies without women, Alper eventually started to go on air with friends on Aachen University Radio and play cheesy songs. The State Media Authority of North Rhine-Westphalia misunderstood this public sexual harassment and punished Alper and his friends with a prize.

Marked by this scandal, Alper then got to know his later ByteFM colleague Matthes Köppinghoff and ByteFM itself through the Count of the NDR (not the musician). However, after Matthes' couch would never be white again thanks to Alper, Alper promised to buy him a new couch when he became rich and famous. Since then ,

Alper has led a triple life as an engineer, DJ and music journalist.

## Alice Peters-Burns, moderator of kaleidoscope

Actually a career changer and then again not. Alice Peters-Burns comes from the border triangle of the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, but that was not enough for her desire for internationality. She did many jobs in many European countries and now feels at home again.

Something familiar also resurfaced: after entering the private radio scene in Belgium as an “indie chick” at the age of 17 and taking a long break 10 years later (during which she of course could not remain music-free), she has been back for a few years now as an “indie grandma”. Some things never change - and not even the special chocolate holder on the studio table - usually empty.

On ByteFM she presents the show Kaleidoskop on Mondays at 5 p.m. and plays old and new, across genres from the huge indie scene. Now, at an advanced age, other continents, especially North America and Australia, also appeal to her, and not just musically.

## Alice Martin, moderator of closet door

Hi, I'm Alice and I'm an artist. That means I love music, no matter what genre. I'm here because I love how ByteFM loves music. 

